# Day 18: Valid Parentheses

- [Valid Parentheses | Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/kata/52774a314c2333f0a7000688)

## Problem description

Write a function that takes a string of parentheses, and determines if the order of the parentheses is valid. The function should return true if the string is valid, and false if it's invalid.

### Examples

```text
"()" -> true
")(()))" -> false
"(" -> false
"(())((()())())" -> true
```

## Resolution

We know that a valid set of parentheses must have a `(` char and a `)` char. The problem is that these can be nested, as happens in the last item of examples.

So for each opening parenthesis we must have a closing one, if we have two or more open ones, we must have a closing one for each of those.

The algorithm I designed creates a variable `controller` that counts the number of open parenthsis. Iterates over the string and verifies if the i-th char of the string is a parenthesis `()`. If is a opening one, add one to the controller, if is a closing one subtract one to the controller.

If there is a point in the loop that the controller gets negative, we have a closing parenthesis with no opening one, therefore we return false.

At the end of the string, if the controller is not equal to zero means that there are opening parenthesis with no closing ones, we return false as well.

We return true if and only if we get to the end of the string and the controller is equal to zero.

## Code

```python
def valid_parentheses(string):
    i = 0
    controller = 0
    while i < len(string) and controller >= 0:
        if string[i] == "(":
            controller += 1
        elif string[i] == ")":
            controller -= 1
        i += 1
    return i == len(string) and controller == 0
```
