# Day 53: Handshake problem

- [Handshake problem | Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5574835e3e404a0bed00001b)

## Problem description

Johnny is a farmer and he annually holds a beet farmers convention "Drop the beet".

Every year he takes photos of farmers handshaking. Johnny knows that no two farmers handshake more than once. He also knows that some of the possible handshake combinations may not happen.

However, Johnny would like to know the minimal amount of people that participated this year just by counting all the handshakes.

Help Johnny by writing a function, that takes the amount of handshakes and returns the minimal amount of people needed to perform these handshakes (a pair of farmers handshake only once).

### Examples

```text
0 -> 0
1 -> 2
3 -> 3
6 -> 4
7 -> 5
```

## Resolution

The resolution of this particular kata gives a pretty algebra insight when solving algorithms problems.

If you don't know what a n/k combination is check out [this article](https://home.ubalt.edu/ntsbarsh/business-stat/otherapplets/comcount.htm).

The problem ask us to return the $n$ people needed to perform $h$ handshakes, assuming that each handshake only happens once.

We can abstract a hanshake as a set of two farmers. Therefore the total amount of handshakes gives us the total number of such two-items sets that can be formed.

And the combination of $n$ elements in groups of $k$ items can be calculated as:

$$\binom{n}{k} = \frac{n!}{k!(n-k)!}$$

Replacing with $h$ the number of handshakes and $k = 2$ the number of farmes per handshake:

$$
\begin{align*}
    \binom{n}{k} &= \frac{n!}{k!(n-k)!} \\
    h &= \frac{n!}{2!(n-2)!} \\
    2h &= \frac{n!}{(n-2)!} \\
    2h &= \frac{n(n-1)(n-2)!}{(n-2)!} \\
    2h &= n(n-1) \\
    2h &= n^2-n \\
    n^2-n - 2h &= 0 \\
\end{align*}
$$

We have a second degree equation, calculate the values of $n$ using the [quadratic formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quadratic_formula).

$$
\begin{align*}
    n &= \frac{1 \pm \sqrt{1 - 4\cdot1\cdot-2h}}{2} \\
    n &= \frac{1 \pm \sqrt{1 + 8h}}{2}
\end{align*}
$$

Since $\sqrt{1 + 8h}$ will always be greater or equal to 1, the $1 - \sqrt{1 + 8h}$ solution will not represent a possible solution to the problem.

Therefore the $n$ number of farmes needed to perform $h$ handshakes will be:

$$
\begin{align*}
    n &= \frac{1 + \sqrt{1 + 8h}}{2}
\end{align*}
$$

Notice that $n$ may not be an integer, so we need to round it to the nearest greater integer.

## Code

```python
import math

def get_participants(handshakes):
    if handshakes == 0:
        return 0
    return math.ceil((1 + (1+8*handshakes)**(1/2)) / 2)
```
