# Day 80: Football - Yellow and Red Cards

- [Training on Football - Yellow and Red Cards | Codewars](https://www.codewars.com/kata/5cde4e3f52910d00130dc92c/train/python)

## Problem description

Most football fans love it for the goals and excitement. Well, this Kata doesn't. You are to handle the referee's little notebook and count the players who were sent off for fouls and misbehavior.

The rules: Two teams, named "A" and "B" have 11 players each; players on each team are numbered from 1 to 11. Any player may be sent off the field by being given a red card. A player can also receive a yellow warning card, which is fine, but if he receives another yellow card, he is sent off immediately (no need for a red card in that case). If one of the teams has less than 7 players remaining, the game is stopped immediately by the referee, and the team with less than 7 players loses.

A card is a string with the team's letter ('A' or 'B'), player's number, and card's color ('Y' or 'R') - all concatenated and capitalized. e.g the card 'B7Y' means player #7 from team B received a yellow card.

The task: Given a list of cards (could be empty), return the number of remaining players on each team at the end of the game (as a tuple of 2 integers, team "A" first). If the game was terminated by the referee for insufficient number of players, you are to stop the game immediately, and ignore any further possible cards.

### Examples

```text
["A4Y", "A4Y"] -> (10,11)
["A4Y", "A5R", "B5R", "A4Y", "B6Y"] -> (9,10)
["A4R", "A6R", "A8R", "A10R", "A11R"] -> (6,11)
```

## Resolution

The strategy I implemented was to create two dictionaries, one for the penalties given to each team an another for storing the number of players of each team at any given point.

Then, aply the corresponding card to the player in the data array and check if it's out of game, subtracting one to the "alives" team players.

If at any givem point the number of players of a team is less than seven stop applying card sanctions and return the players value.

## Code

```python
def men_still_standing(cards):
    data = {
        "A":[2] * 11,
        "B":[2] * 11,
    }
    players = {"A":11, "B":11}
    i = 0
    while i < len(cards) and players["A"] >= 7 and players["B"] >= 7:
        p = cards[i]
        team = p[0]
        if len(p) == 4:
            number = int(p[1:3])
            card = p[3]
        else:
            number = int(p[1])
            card = p[2]
        
        if card == "Y":
            if data[team][number-1] == 2:
                data[team][number-1] -= 1
            elif data[team][number-1] == 1:
                data[team][number-1] = 0
                players[team] -= 1
        else:
            if data[team][number-1] != 0:
                data[team][number-1] = 0
                players[team] -= 1
        i += 1
    return (players["A"], players["B"])
```
